turkey's president Reb T erdogan has
called on Israel to quote immediately
stop this madness and end its attacks on
Targets in Gaza a rally in Istanbul in
support of Palestinians was expected to
be one of the largest global
demonstrations since the start of
Israel's war against Hamas it was
organized by Iran's Islamic conservative
AK party a day ahead of the 100-year
anniversary of turkey's
founding for more let's bring in DW
correspondent Julia Han in Istanbul
Julia does this mean turkey is now
clearly taking sides after initially
being seen as a potential mediator in
this
war well Michael the Turkish government
has never been a neutral voice in this
conflict president erdogan and his
ruling AKP of fervent supporters of the
Palestinian cause they have mobilized
their supporters for days to attend this
massive rally here in Istanbul today the
president is expected to speak any
minute and uh he will probably reinforce
his growing criticism of Israel's
bombardment of the Gaza Strip earlier on
social media today he told people and I
quote him to stand alongside the
Palestinians loud and clear against
Israel's oppression and I think this is
setting the stage for today at the same
time I think the Istanbul rally is
sending a very concerning message of
support for Hamas Edwin has good
relations with hamas's political
leadership he has hosted and met with
Hamas officials here in the country and
earlier this week he has made it Crystal
Clear where he stands he said he does
not view Hamas as a terrorist
organization but and I quote him again
as liberators fighting for their own
land I think that shows where he stands
that he fundamentally disagrees with
Israel on this and with most of his
Western allies who have designated Hamas
a terrorist organization years
ago always been behind the Palestinian
cause as you put it but up until this
point his tone has been shall we say a
little bit more muted what's behind
erdogan's change in
tone well now I think he is uh really
trying to stoke his political uh base
but uh yes right after hamas's
atrocities against Israeli civilians on
October 7th uh we heard uh a more
conciliatory tone from Edan which
analysts say had to do with the fact
that he was recently trying to repair
Long strained relations with the Israeli
government there were talks about a gas
pipeline project he even met Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the
sidelines of the UN General General
Assembly just in September but that now
seems to be off the table um as Israel
intensifies its response attacks on the
Gaza Strip Adan has really hardened his
tone he said he has cancelled a planned
trip and visit to Israel Israel has
called it back its diplomats from turkey
and has told citizens to leave the
country amid security concerns one of
the interesting questions here in Turkey
is to which extent does adan's vocal
support for Hamas and him taking a clear
s side really reflect public opinion
here in the country a recent poll
suggests that a majority of Turkish
people would rather like to see their
government to take a more neutral
stance so what's turkey's suggestion
then to end this war and bring peace to
the
region well the Turkish government has
uh advocated for a two-state solution
but right now as the fighting still
rages on they have been pressing for a
humanitarian ceasefire a ceasefire which
would allow a to be delivered and
brought into the Gaza Strip the Turkish
government has sent several military
cargo planes with food a medical Aid to
Egypt to be delivered into Gaza but we
all know how difficult access is right
now and the Turkish government also says
it's negotiating with Hamas for the
release of Civilian hostages but so far
these specific Turkish efforts have not
yielded any results as far as we know um
so I cannot tell you anything new about
hostages being potentially released
because of Turkish mediation efforts
that is our yudan many thanks as
always